
# Pattern Lab — RI Gov
This is the decoupled pattern lab library for RI.gov. The foundation for this respository was built using: Pattern Lab Node - Gulp Edition | The Gulp wrapper around [Pattern Lab Node Core](https://github.com/pattern-lab/patternlab-node/tree/master/packages/core).

From there we have made a quite a few modifications:
* Converted the engine to use Twig rendering engine
* Pulled in a custom source directory
* Upgraded the gulp file to use Gulp 4
* Added a HJSON file as the source for all colors and themes
* Added custom JS and SASS compiling.

## Getting Started

> Notice: This repository is stand-alone in the sense that you may develop the RI Gov Pattern Lab with no other dependencies.

To get up and running:

### Install Dependencies

Make sure you are running `node 10` globally.

Using [Node Version Manager (nvm)][] makes switching node versions easy.

```bash
nvm install 10
```

```bash
npm ci
```

### Gulp Commands

```bash
gulp
```
The `default` gulp command builds the JSON, JS, SCSS, and serves the Pattern Lab server. It also calls `gulp watch` which will detect any changes and re-build. Any changes to the HJSON file requires the build to be stopped and restarted.


```bash
gulp build
```

Running `gulp build` builds all JS, SCSS, and patterns once.

```bash
gulp build:no-patterns
```

Running `gulp build:no-patterns` excludes patterns from being built but will compile JS and SCSS.

### Compiled Assets

Assets are compiled to two locations:

`/dist` - folder contains a JS and CSS folder with compiled assets. This is the directory Drupal will use to pull in assets.

`/public/` - Public directory is generated by Pattern Lab. The CSS directory inside of this contains the same assets as `/source/css`. The JS directory is the same as `source/js`.

[Node Version Manager (nvm)]: https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm
